INTRODUCTION 
Thank you for honoring me by opening this book and taking the journey it offers. To begin a journey is an act of courage. I hope your courage will be rewarded by new ideas and practices that will enable your family to preserve its wealth long into the future. To those of you (pilgrims on the road to Compostella) who read the first edition of Family Wealth: Keeping It in the Family, welcome back to the journey seven years later. I hope your journey so far has been rewarding and that your family governance systems are functioning well. I also hope you will find the ideas on elders, ritual, practices, evaluation of the third generation, mentorship, and the role of the homme d’affaires, newly included in this revised edition, a way to see what I have learned since we parted. To all who are journeying with me, let me paraphrase what Chaucer says at the beginning of the Canterbury Tales: As we are all pilgrims journeying to Canterbury individually, why not walk together and tell each other our stories? This is my story of family, and I welcome your stories as they join mine. Thirteen years ago, I found myself professionally in the same “dark wood” described by Dante in the introduction to The Inferno. For the prior twenty-three years I had been honored by the decisions of many families to use my professional skills as an attorney. Most of these families sincerely believed that I helped them, and for many of those early years, I thought so, too. Gradually, however, I came to realize that while I was solving the problems they brought to me, most of these families were not successfully preserving their wealth when measured against the universal cultural proverb that we in America describe as “Shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations.” I realized that the skills I had and, more important, my thought process in applying those skills, did not offer any solution to the proverb or, therefore, to my fundamental professional responsibility to these families. As this reality deepened its hold on me, I found myself in the “dark wood” wondering how, or even if, I should continue the active practice of law. Even more profoundly, I feared that I might be violating the most fundamental credo of any professional, “Do no harm.” 
After a period of retreat and reflection, I decided to begin exploring whether there was a way of thinking about the long-term preservation of a family’s wealth, and whether there were practices a family could employ using that way of thinking, to overcome the effects of the proverb. I hoped that through this exploration I could continue to practice law using these ways of thinking and new skills to respond effectively first to the negative presumption of the proverb —that long-term wealth preservation by a family is impossible—and then to my individual concern that I should do no harm. This book is my effort to share with you what I have discovered so far. To begin our process of discovery together, let me share some insights about myself so you know who you are journeying with and why I am so curious about this subject. First, I am the great-grandson, on my maternal side, of a German immigrant who arrived in the United States during the Civil War. Soon after arriving at Newark, New Jersey, he enlisted as a “bounty soldier” in one of the New Jersey regiments. My great-grandfather did this because each bounty soldier received a substantial sum from another Northern boy who didn’t want to take the risk of losing his life in the war. My great-grandfather elected to risk his life in order to have, if he survived, the necessary funds to start a business. Happily he did survive. (Otherwise, I wouldn’t be here writing this book.) In fact, after a few years, he created what was for those times a substantial fortune. In terms of the shirtsleeves proverb, he was the prototypical first-generation creator of wealth. My mother’s father—my grandfather—was the ninth of eleven children. By the time of his maturity, the family was well-to-do, and all the executive positions in the family business were occupied by his older brothers. He discovered that he was free to pursue his own journey without the structure of work and financial responsibility required of his older siblings. During the Great Depression, he invested his part of his parents’ fortune in a building in Newark. Unfortunately, his partner embezzled the firm’s funds, and my grandfather went bankrupt. Thereafter, with very few useful skills and without the education about work that his older brothers had received, he was unable to provide adequately for his wife and three daughters. In my mother’s family, we didn’t have to wait for the third generation to lose our financial wealth—we lost it in the second generation. This piece of family history has haunted me, because it seemed so unnecessary. It has been particularly difficult because my grandfather was my first real best friend. Without any doubt, my calling to the work of families and my efforts to help them preserve their wealth come in part from the history of financial wealth in my mother’s family. Second, on my paternal side, I am the sixth generation of my family to be involved with the practice of law. My great-great-great-grandfather was a justice of the peace in Virginia; my great-great-grandfather was a justice of the peace in Missouri; my great-grandfather was a district court judge in four counties of Missouri at the end of the nineteenth century; my grandfather earned a law degree from Washington University in St. Louis; and my father spent fifty years practicing law at Coudert Brothers, many of those years as one of its managing partners. My nephew, who works with me, is the seventh generation of our family to practice law. This thread of my family history brings with it a very strict, almost Victorian, sense of a lawyer’s responsibility to be just and to serve his client’s interest in every possible way before considering his own. It also has meant that the practice of law is metaphorically, for me, the participation in a six-generation family business. The history of my father’s family and its involvement in law has meant that I see my role as a lawyer both as a personal calling and as a responsibility to my forebears. It brings with it a passion to help people solve the problems they bring to me. This passion, I hope, developed not out of hubris, but out of a sense that this is my duty and raison d’être as a lawyer. Third, I believe each of us learns in one of two fundamentally different ways, either through intensive study or intensive practice. I remain fascinated that the yogis of the Hindu faith understood and were applying this process of how we learn thousands of years ago. Then, and still today when a yogi accepts a new aspirant for spiritual learning, the yogi seeks to discover by which method the aspirant learns best. The yogi then applies this method to the aspirant’s training. This fundamental divide in the ways we learn also means that to achieve complete understanding of any subject, we must balance our predilection to learn one way with an awareness of our lack of skill in learning by the second route. I learn most easily by the route of intense study, so I must work extra hard to learn by practice. When I was in the “dark wood” and decided to begin the journey to try to find an answer to why families failed to disprove the shirtsleeves proverb, I set myself two tasks. First, I would educate myself, through reading, on every aspect of a family as a whole, on the relation of each member of a family to every other member, and on the spiritual underpinning of those relations as reflected in the world’s major spiritual traditions. Second, I would ask the members of the families I was helping whether and how they practiced these relationships. In 2000, I helped found a new learning institution (originally called the FOX Foundation, later The Learning Academy, and now called the Family Capital Institute) based on these Yogic learning principles with the added help of the work of Howard Gardner and Peter Vail. It has been thrilling to see family members learning together, in the ways each of them learns, the skills they need to successfully develop themselves and their abilities to participate in their family’s governance systems. The results of my study and my practice are reflected in the ideas and structure of the book. Chapter 1 describes my philosophy: • A family can successfully preserve its greatest wealth, that wealth being the individual human beings who form the family, over a long period of time. • A family’s wealth consists primarily of its human capital (defined as all the individuals who make up the family) and its intellectual capital (defined as everything that each individual family member knows), and secondarily of its financial capital. • The purpose of a family is the enhancement of the individual pursuits of happiness of each of its members in the overall pursuit of the long-term preservation of the family as a whole. • Successful long-term wealth preservation requires the creation and maintenance of a system of governance or joint decision making, to the end of making slightly more positive decisions than negative ones over a period of at least one hundred years. Chapters 2 through 8 deal with practices that help a family define its mission, measure its success, learn to invest together, learn to enhance its members’ financial skills and leverage their financial strengths, and best employ the skills of the families’ closest advisers. Chapters 9 through 15 explain a way of thinking about responsibility to the family as a whole, the mutual roles of beneficiaries and trustees, the role of family philanthropy, the role of external reviewers of the excellence of a family’s practices (called peer review), and the possibility of creating a private trust company. Chapters 16 through 21 contain further reflections on the roles of specific family members, mentors, and trustees, and a full discussion of the concept of a perpetual trust. This book does not contain a chapter dealing with spirituality and its fundamental role in family wealth preservation. Every family I have observed that is successfully preserving its wealth is a reflection of the five virtues of truth, beauty, goodness, community, and compassion. Transcending all of these is its reflection of love. Families who preserve their wealth successfully reflect these virtues in their relationships both with family members and with all persons outside the family. I am convinced that without this spiritual component, a family cannot succeed in preserving itself, since its value system will fail and with that failure will come its disintegration. Why, if this spiritual component is so fundamental, is it not discussed as part of my philosophy of wealth preservation in Chapter 1? Because it is so basic that I am not sure a family can consider itself a functioning family if it is not already reflecting, expressing, and practicing these spiritual qualities. Second, I feel that my skills to help a family preserve its wealth can be successfully employed only by those families whose ethic includes these spiritual components when they first approach me for advice. To begin a journey together for the purpose of enhancing the individual pursuit of happiness of each family member without the basic spiritual grounding for such a journey is to assure failure. Please always remember as you read this book that the ideas and practices expressed here are founded on my belief (learned from my mentor Peter White, who was the founder of International Skye and an early journeyer in this work) that these spiritual truths are the essential ethical fabric of your family. Without these spiritual truths underpinning your family’s ethic, nothing I have written will make sense. If your family has not fully appreciated and incorporated this spiritual component into your unique ethic (your “differentness”), then start your family journey with a search for this spiritual component first, and then later use this book to help you when your family’s journey has reached a point where it can incorporate and practice these ideas. I hope that whether you learn best through the study of ideas (Chapters 1 and 16 through 21) or through practice (Chapters 2 through 15), you will find at least one suggestion within this book that will prompt you to have the courage to believe that the shirtsleeve proverb can be overcome. I believe it can!
